Our CMO challenged me to build an AI bot
that does our marketing team's job.
>> What we're looking for is efficiency and
time savings. Our team not having to do
it manually.
>> But there's one big problem. He hates AI
content.
>> AI content is not original in any way.
>> Skeptic.
>> He gave me three real tasks to test it.
Generate a product updates blog post, a
YouTube script for a monthly product
updates, and a newsletter going out to
tens of thousands of people. If I could
get it to 80% publish ready with minimal
human intervention, it's a success. If
not, I failed. The goal isn't to replace
anyone. It's to prove AI can save our
team a massive amount of time without
significantly lowering the bar.
>> Right away, it feels AI and AI share a
voice in one view.
>> Okay, now I'm not sure.
>> This is how I used AI to try and replace
the work of some of the world's best B2B
[music] product marketers. The first
thing that we're going to do is we're
going to gather the different blog posts
for the new [music] feature update.
That's going to be the lowest hanging
fruit.
>> So, I downloaded 12 months of our
product marketing team's blog posts and
created a chat GBT project
>> and let's give it some instructions.
What better way to come up with
instructions than to have ChatGBT
generate it for you. And after a few
minutes of giving chat GBT context about
the project, I was almost ready to
create our [music] first AI generated
blog post. But I wanted to give chatbt
one more big challenge.
>> As a bonus goal, I want Tim to say that
the AI article script or newsletter is
better than a humans. And with that, our
GPT was ready to be put to the test. I
copied all the product updates from
Slack, pasted them into our custom
project, and sent the message not
knowing how things would turn out.
>> Come on. Okay, this has to work. Our
first draft had a couple of simple
errors, but after [music] updating the
instructions with more details on our
writing style, we were getting very
close.
>> Yeah, that's pretty good. All right, I
converted the AI generated blog post
from HTML to a Google doc. This is
freaking awesome. I think this [music]
is actually close.
Okay, so I'm done the first iteration of
the blog post. So, I'm gonna send these
over to Andre. He's [music] in the
product marketing side of things with
Rebecca. I'm going to ask him to look at
it and give me his [music] honest
feedback. And if there's one thing you
need to know about Andre, he will always
tell you the truth.
>> Is there anything in here that you feel
like we could do better?
>> Uh, it's a bit technical. Uh, [music]
probably tone down the language. Explain
me like I'm five. The benefits could be
more specific. [music] Use examples for
features that are hard to explain or
hard to digest.
>> [music]
>> from text only. And yeah, that's the
only comment I have.
>> Andre's instructions were clear. Be more
specific, and add more examples. We had
a path forward. I updated the
instructions using Andre's advice, spent
an hour implementing it, had ChatGpt
generate the HTML, converted it to a
Google doc again, and just like that, we
had our new draft.
>> Oh, that's beautiful. I think we're
pretty good with this one. I then wrote
up some quick instructions on how to
generate our post. And bing, bang, boom,
we were done. At this point, I was
confident Tim would see the value in how
AI would save our team tons of time
without sacrificing quality. Sweet. Now,
I'm going to go and do the video
scripts. I reached out to Rebecca and
asked her to send me a year's worth of
video scripts from our product updates.
Then, all I had to do was [music] rinse
and repeat. I downloaded them, added
them to our project, and updated Chat
GPT's instructions so it would know to
repurpose the video script from the blog
post. It's generating again. All right.
So, this is good. And page of monthly
product updates. We have quite a few
updates to introduce this month. Let's
start with site explorer. This sounds
exactly the same. [music] Yeah. You know
what? This is it. Let's stop this here
and let's say final video script.
But then the worst thing possible
happened. I went to generate a new blog
post and [music] everything felt broken.
>> This is confused now. No, this sucks.
>> The new instructions I added messed it
all up. I was back at square one.
>> Yeah, look how many things went missing.
Why?
I tried to rewrite the instructions to
make things work properly. Over. Well,
that's kind of annoying. They don't put
it in a code box anymore and over. What?
They don't have placeholders now for
images. No.
And over again.
>> Please. It's still generating.
Do I look tired? I am. Right as I was
about to give up, I had a breakthrough.
Instead of trusting Chat GBT to remember
what was written in my blog post, I
downloaded the document, re-uploaded it,
and asked it to generate the video
script. And finally, we had success.
Yes, it looks exactly as I wanted. I
think we're done. I'm so done.
>> At this point, all that was left was the
newsletter. [music]
Okay, so I just finished doing the
newsletter and it looks pretty good, but
I did it a little bit differently this
time. [music] So, because the newsletter
follows a very specific format, I
created a template this time and then
using the content from our blog, I was
able to [music] generate it quite
easily. And so, yeah, I think it looks
pretty good. I'm ready to show it to
Tim, see which one he likes better or to
see if we're close. The work was done.
It was time to meet Tim where I find
[music] out if the mission was
successful or a complete failure.
>> Tim, what's up?
>> How's it going?
>> All right. So, about a month ago, you
and I talked about using AI to automate
a lot of the product marketing stuffs,
the blog post, video scripts, and a
newsletter. And so, I'm done. And I
think you're actually going to be pretty
impressed. So, what I'm going to do is
I'm going to show these to you. And you
told me that if it's going to save the
product marketing team a ton of time,
then it would be considered a success as
long as people aren't able to identify
that the quality has gone down.
>> Yeah.
>> So, let's look at the blog post, read
through it, and when you feel like you
know whether it's human or AI, just let
us know.
>> I don't know. Right away, it feels AI.
He looks unimpressed.
>> So formatting, I don't like the
formatting. I don't Yeah.
>> Okay.
>> The AI citations widget in overview now
maps cleanly to brand radar. If a human
person wrote this, we're going to need
to talk with that human.
>> What's wrong with that statement?
>> I don't know. It just feels weird. Maybe
maybe because I'm not a native speaker,
but maps cleanly. Yeah. Uh, I'm not a
fan. Not a fan.
>> Not a fan. Okay. Let's look at the
second blog post.
>> Immediately for me, it is better. This
feels like our regular update. It
delivers the point across more clearly
without using any extra words. Halfway
through reading the paragraph, I already
see what the person is trying to tell
me.
>> While in the previous example, It was
convoluted. This second one uh choose
better.
>> I would be surprised if the first bot
was a person and the second one was AI.
>> You're right.
>> I'm right.
>> Yes.
>> Tim clearly knew which one was AI and he
didn't [music] like it. But would he
feel the same way about the video
script? What happened next surprised
both of us.
>> So I'm going to show you these two
videos. If you can just Oh yeah, just
hit play whenever you're ready. We have
20 updates to introduce this month.
Let's start with site explorer. First
up, the backlinks report now has
one-click presets. These make it a lot
faster to clean up link.
>> This is us. I don't need to watch
further. Show me the second one.
>> Hey, and welcome to HS monthly product
updates. We have 17 updates to introduce
this month. Let's start with Brand
Radar. Brand Radar now tracks YouTube.
There's a new video visibility section
and a full YouTube index so you can see
exactly where your brand shows up across
[music] high traffic.
>> Okay, now I'm not sure.
>> Play the first one again.
>> Hey, and welcome to Inress monthly
product updates. Page counts in
overview. Now open the cited pages
report and brand radar. It's a small
update, but it connects organic.
>> Okay. Okay. The the first one is AI. The
second one is us. Again, same same thing
like it's kind of more convoluted. It's
harder to follow. It doesn't feel like
the person knows the product. Well,
>> what Tim was saying made a lot of sense.
Our AI bot didn't actually know the
product. It only knew what I told it. It
didn't have the realworld context of how
Hrefs is actually [music] used. And with
a tool this powerful, that context
matters. Without it, the AI struggled to
write the way a marketer at Hrefs would.
In the beginning, I liked the phrase one
click presets and I thought that this
was our copyrightiting. But then as I
started looking this second video, it
also was giving the information in a
very efficient way. First one is AI,
second one is us.
>> Yeah, right. Damn.
>> But
>> but in the very first 5 seconds, you're
like this is us already.
>> Yeah. And so this is us. Yeah, I don't
need to watch further.
>> So, it seems like it's coming down to an
understanding of the product. Do you
think that someone reading the blog
posts or watching the videos will be
able to tell that anything has changed?
>> So, it's not about them being able to
tell, it's about us being able to
communicate what we want to communicate.
And I don't feel that AI has a goal to
communicate something. Sometimes it
would use the language that is overly
complex and like very professional.
Other times it would use the language
that we don't use in our kind of
professional environment. But there is
no middle ground where you know you're
talking to a person who understands the
industry and understands what kind of
language we use but also doesn't want to
make it overly complicated just in case
some newbies are watching.
>> Okay, fair enough. The last thing that I
want to show you is the newsletter.
We have not [music] sent out this
newsletter yet. So, I want you to take a
look through it. Uh,
okay. Right away, it says, "In this
quick 5 minute video, we walk you
through blah blah blah. I don't expect
our newsletter to pitch the video. I
expect our newsletter to pitch the
product."
We're also sitting here analyzing
exactly what's wrong, whereas someone
else who's actually looking at it would
just kind of be skimming through it,
right? This is literally my job to make
sure that our marketing like has a
certain standard like if we drop this
standard that then why am I having my
job? It would be great to also go
through the process and see like where
exactly and we can use some human touch
>> to push it to kind of 90% good. Right
now I feel it's like
>> 60% good. I wouldn't even give it 70. So
then would you consider this to have
been a success?
No,
>> but it's saving so much time.
>> Yeah,
>> according to Andre, roughly to do all
three tasks would be about a week's
worth of work and this would take 3
minutes.
>> Okay. Overall, it's not bad. I think I
would agree that
we would send something like that. If we
can push it to like uh 8090, then I
would be comfortable shipping it. AI got
us close, but it couldn't communicate
product knowledge in our voice. Not for
something as powerful and versatile as
Adri. That gap, that's literally our
job.